.\" This is -*-nroff-*-
.\" XXX standard disclaimer belongs here....
.\" $Header: /cvsroot/pgsql/doc/man/Attic/destroydb.1,v 1.1.1.1 1996/08/18 22:14:23 scrappy Exp $
.TH DESTROYDB UNIX 11/05/95 Postgres95 Postgres95
.SH NAME
destroydb \(em destroy an existing database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR destroydb
[\c
.BR -a
system]
[\c
.BR -h
host]
[\c
.BR -p
port]
[dbname]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IR Destroydb
destroys an existing database.  To execute this command, the user must
be the database administrator, or DBA, for this database.
The program runs silently; no confirmation message will be displayed.
After the database is destroyed, a Unix shell prompt will reappear.
.PP
.IR Destroydb
is a shell script that invokes
.IR psql .
Hence, a
.IR postmaster
process must be running on the database server host before
.IR destroydb 
is executed.  In addition, the 
.SM PGOPTION
and
.SM PGREALM
environment
variables will be passed on to
.IR psql
and processed as described in 
.IR psql (1).
.PP
The optional argument
.IR dbname
specifies the name of the database to be destroyed.  All references to
the database are removed, including the directory containing this
database and its associated files.
.IR Dbname
defaults to the value of the
.SM USER
environment variable.
.PP
.IR Destroydb
understands the following command-line options:
.TP 5n
.BR "-a" " system"
Specifies an authentication system
.IR "system"
(see 
.IR introduction (1))
to use in connecting to the 
.IR postmaster
process.  The default is site-specific.
.TP
.BR "-h" " host"
Specifies the hostname of the machine on which the 
.IR postmaster
is running.  Defaults to the name of the local host, or the value of
the
.SM PGHOST
environment variable (if set).
.TP
.BR "-p" " port"
Specifies the Internet TCP port on which the
.IR postmaster
is listening for connections.  Defaults to 5432, or the value of the
.SM PGPORT
environment variable (if set).
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
# destroy the demo database
destroydb demo
.fi
.nf
# destroy 5432 demo database using the postmaster on host eden,
# port using the Kerberos authentication system.
destroydb -a kerberos -p 5432 -h eden demo
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP 5n
\&$PGDATA/base/\fIdbname\fP
The location of the files corresponding to the database 
.IR dbname .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
destroydb(l),
createdb(1),
initdb(1),
psql(1).
postmaster(1).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 5n
.BI "Error: Failed to connect to backend (host=" "xxx" ", port=" "xxx" ")"
.IR Destroydb
could not attach to the 
.IR postmaster 
process on the specified host and port.  If you see this message,
ensure that the
.IR postmaster
is running on the proper host and that you have specified the proper
port.  If your site uses an authentication system, ensure that you
have obtained the required authentication credentials.
.TP
.BI "user \*(lq" "username" "\*(rq is not in \*(lqpg_user\*(rq"
You do not have a valid entry in the relation \*(lqpg_user\*(rq and
cannot do anything with Postgres at all; contact your Postgres site
administrator.
.TP
.BI "user \*(lq" "username" "\*(rq is not allowed to create/destroy databases"
You do not have permission to destroy databases; contact your Postgres
site administrator.
.TP
.BR "database \*(lqdbname\*(rq does not exist"
The database to be removed does not have an entry in the
\*(lqpg_database\*(rq class.
.TP
.BI "database \*(lq" "dbname" "\*(rq is not owned by you"
You are not DBA for the specified database.
.TP
.BI "database destroy failed on" " dbname"
An internal error occurred in 
.IR psql
or the backend server.  Contact your Postgres site administrator to
ensure that ensure that the files and database entries associated with
the database are completely removed.
