.\" This is -*-nroff-*-
.\" XXX standard disclaimer belongs here....
.\" $Header: /cvsroot/pgsql/doc/man/Attic/initdb.1,v 1.1.1.1 1996/08/18 22:14:24 scrappy Exp $
.TH INITDB UNIX 11/05/95 Postgres95 Postgres95
.SH NAME
initdb \(em initalize the database templates and primary directories
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "initdb"
[\c
.BR "-v"
]
[\c
.BR "-d"
]
[\c
.BR "-n"
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IR Initdb
sets up the initial template databases and is normally executed as
part of the installation process.  The template database is created
under the directory specified by the the environment variable 
.SM PGDATA,
or to a default specified at compile-time.  The template database
is then 
.BR vacuum ed.
.PP
.IR Initdb
is a shell script that invokes the backend server directly.  Hence, it
must be executed by the Postgres super-user.
.PP
.IR Initdb
understands the following command-line options:
.TP
.BR "-v"
Produce verbose output, printing messages stating where the
directories are being created, etc.
.TP
.BR "-d"
Print debugging output from the backend server.  This option generates
a tremendous amount of information.  This option also turns off the
final vacuuming step.
.TP
.BR "-n"
Run in \*(lqnoclean\*(rq mode.  By default, 
.IR initdb
cleans up (recursively unlinks) the data directory if any error
occurs, which also removes any core files left by the backend server.
This option inhibits any tidying-up.
.SH FILES
.TP
\&$PGDATA/base
The location of global (shared) classes.
.TP
\&$PGDATA/base/template1
The location of the template database.
.TP
\&$PGDATA/files/{global1,local1_template1}.bki
Command files used to generate the global and template databases,
generated and installed by the initial compilation process.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
createdb(1),
vacuum(l),
bki(files),
template(files).
