.\" This is -*-nroff-*-
.\" XXX standard disclaimer belongs here....
.\" $Header: /cvsroot/pgsql/src/man/Attic/destroyuser.1,v 1.8 1998/06/24 13:21:25 momjian Exp $
.TH DESTROYUSER UNIX 11/05/95 PostgreSQL PostgreSQL
.SH NAME
destroyuser - destroy a Postgres user and associated databases
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR destroyuser
[\c
.BR -a
system]
[\c
.BR -h
host]
[\c
.BR -p
port]
[username]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.IR Destroyuser
destroys an existing Postgres user and the databases for which that user
is database administrator.  Only users with \*(lqusesuper\*(rq set in
the \*(lqpg_shadow\*(rq class can destroy new Postgres users.  As shipped,
the user \*(lqpostgres\*(rq can destroy users.
.PP
.IR Destroyuser
is a shell script that invokes
.IR psql .
Hence, a
.IR postmaster
process must be running on the database server host before
.IR destroyuser
is executed.  In addition, the
.SM PGOPTION
and
.SM PGREALM
environment variables will be passed on to
.IR psql
and processed as described in 
.IR psql(1).
.PP
The optional argument
.IR username
specifies the name of the Postgres user to be destroyed.  (The invoker will
be prompted for a name if none is specified on the command line.)
.PP
.IR Destroyuser
understands the following command-line options:
.TP 5n
.BR "-a" " system"
Specifies an authentication system
.IR "system"
(see 
.IR pgintro(1))
to use in connecting to the 
.IR postmaster
process.  This option no longer has any effect.
.TP
.BR "-h" " host"
Specifies the hostname of the machine on which the 
.IR postmaster
is running.  Defaults to using local Unix domain sockets.
.TP
.BR "-p" " port"
Specifies the TCP/IP port or local Unix domain socket file extension
on which the
.IR postmaster
is listening for connections.  Defaults to 5432, or the value of the
.SM PGPORT
environment variable (if set).
.SH "INTERACTIVE QUESTIONS"
.PP
Once invoked with the above options,
.IR destroyuser
will warn you about the databases that will be destroyed in the
process and permit you to abort the removal of the user if desired.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
createuser(1),
psql(1),
postmaster(1).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 5n
.BI "Error: Failed to connect to backend (host=" "xxx" ", port=" "xxx" ")"
.IR Destroyuser
could not attach to the 
.IR postmaster 
process on the specified host and port.  If you see this message,
ensure that the
.IR postmaster
is running on the proper host and that you have specified the proper
port.  If your site uses an authentication system, ensure that you
have obtained the required authentication credentials.
.TP
.BI "user \*(lq" "username" "\*(rq is not in \*(lqpg_shadow\*(rq"
You do not have a valid entry in the relation \*(lqpg_shadow\*(rq and
cannot do anything with Postgres at all; contact your Postgres site
administrator.
.TP
.IB "username" " cannot delete users."
You do not have permission to delete users; contact your Postgres site
administrator.
.TP
.BI "user \*(lq" "username" "\*(rq does not exist"
The user to be removed does not have an entry in the \*(lqpg_shadow\*(rq
class.
.TP
.BR "database access failed"
.TP
.BI "destroydb on" " dbname" " failed - exiting"
.TP
.BI "delete of user" " username" " was UNSUCCESSFUL"
An internal error occurred in 
.IR psql
or the backend server.  Contact your Postgres site administrator to
ensure that the files and database entries associated with the user
and his/her associated databases are completely removed.
